The members of parliament (MOP) dataset has been compared to riksdagens open data (RÖD) in order to examine the quality of the datasets and to complete MOP with additional variables from RÖD. There are discrepancies in terms of how the datasets are formatted, which values different variables can take on, and which variables the datasets include. Efforts have been made to connect the two datasets (both algorithmically and manually) in order to draw conclusions. Variables used for connecting the datasets are: name, start (year), end (year), party and district
Concerning RÖD, the dataset dates back to 1971 when Sweden changed to a unicameral system, but is missing many observations in the earlier years. The same person may also exist as several entries during the same time period, with a value for some other variable differing.
After connecting the datasets, 76% of observations in MOP have been matched to RÖD and the variables born (year) and riksdagen_id have been added to MOP. This ratio is much higher (90-99%) for more recent years due to the missingness in RÖD. People in MOP that occur several times (in different time periods) have sometimes only been connected for some entries (most often due to missingness in RÖD). This issue is quite frequent and connecting these people (a task that still remains) should increase the number of connected people by approximately 5-10%. In RÖD there are 100~ unique members of parliament that have not been successfully connected to MOP. The issue of finding these people or adding them to MOP still remains. Everyone successfully connected have at some point been members of parliament.
A major issue when connecting the datasets is the formatting and spelling of names. Riksdagen seems more correct in this regard as MOP can contain observations of the same person with the different spellings. People may also have extra or add/change their names, which further complicates the issue. Notes on people matched with name discrepancies between the datasets is given in mop_name_notes.txt. Lastly, throughout and after the process of connecting the datasets many connected members of parliament have been examined to ensure correct matches and not miss matches have been found.

